# November 2023 Meeting of the Astronomy Curriculum Advisors

Date: November 28, 2023, 20.00-21.00 CET

## Attendants

* Azalee Bostroem
* Heather Andrews
* Adam Hughes
* Ivelina Momcheva

## Roles:

**Facilitator:** Azalee

**Notetaker:** Iva

**Timekeeper:** Adam
 
## Agenda:

### Curriculum status: switch has been made to new Capentries work bench  

- Carpentries has transitioned to the workbench. Most things look ok but there are a couple of issues: typo, one figure of database looks low resolution.  
- A lot of fairly easy issues open and workbench pull requests open.  

### Is anyone teaching this curriculum? Are workshops being reported to the Carpentries?  

- Azalee checked if there are any self-organized workshops and there are none registered including the Seattle AAS from last year was not registered.  
- The eScience center in the Netherlands definitely had some workshops that showed this curriculum in 2022 but have not been reported.  
- Where can we advertise the curriculum?
  - Astronomy Python FB group (Iva)  
  - Astropy Slack (Iva)  
  - Bluesky  
  - Other instructors teaching a course  
  - Potential coordination with LSST community: there are lots of trainings being developed, not a lot of coordination  
  - https://vast-seminars.github.io/ (Iva)  
  - The NAVO team, maybe Tess Jaffee (Iva)  
  - Advertising at the AAS booth: stickers and a business card  
  - AAS Education Section - future work, summer AAS  
  - CarpentryCon 2024 talk  
- Maybe organizing a central workshop is too much work. Heather mentioned that Leiden for example may not have instructors.  

### AAS workshop - goal: clean up outstanding issues and pull requests  

- Ralf and Azalee will be teaching at the AAS this year and they will try to fix the outstanding issues.   
- Might be good to have feedback about the curriculum after the AAS workshop.  

### Lead maintainer: I received push back from Toby about this - any other ideas?  

- There is currently no lead maintainer. Toby said we don't necessarily need one but now no one is doing it. Maybe revisit the idea. 

### Is there anything that needs to be updated in the curriculum?  

- At some point it would be useful to think if this is the correct curriculum. Do we want to add to it? Is it difficult to break out a piece?  
- Azalee has proposed to change the dataset with LSST one as part of her fellowship.   
- Erin asked if there is anything that needs to be updated in the curriculum. It seems like everything is pretty stable. Adding versions to the YML file would be useful so we can control the increment of the versions. We have not done that yet.  

### Anything else?

- Heather will be on parental leave from ~March to ~August. Azalee will ask Toby if someone needs to replace Heather.  
- Heather shared the CodeRefinery link: https://coderefinery.org/lessons/ and https://coderefinery.org/lessons/from-coderefinery/  
- Plan to have another meeting at the end of February!