# December 2023 Meeting of the Ecology Curriculum Advisors  

Meeting took place on **Monday 4 December 2023 ⋅ 16:00 – 17:00 UTC**

## Attendants

- Mike Trizna, he/him/his, Smithsonian Institution 
- Reinder Radersma, he/him, Netherlands Scientific Organization Institutes
- Jen Thomas, she/her, Rothamsted Research, Uni of Exeter
- Toby Hodges, he/him, The Carpentries
- Adriana De Palma, she/her, Natural History Museum London

## Roles

- **Notetaker:** Mike
- **Facilitator:** Reinder
- **Timekeeper:** Jen

## Agenda
- Previous meeting notes: https://github.com/datacarpentry/curriculum-advisors/blob/main/ecology/September-2023-ecology-minutes.md 
- R Lesson Beta:
  - Report from Kaija Gahm from UCLA: https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/curriculum-advisors-ecology/Tfdc16e1bcfed77fb-M317dfd9aabf5799535ac4edb
  - What's next?
- Issues to highlight: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/R-ecology-lesson-alternative/issues/7
  
## Previous meeting notes
- No additions

## R Lesson Beta
- Report from Kaija Gahm from UCLA:
  - Dataset was large and challenging, which might have trouble
  - Additional discussion on dc-ecology-r Slack channel
    - Ethan White chimed in to suggest format of "ratdat" data
    - Which is what led to Toby creating PR on the lesson
    - But might need to now update descriptions and/or code output blocks
  - Should transform report into issues
  - Overall: "I like it way, way better than the old version."
- Have we seen enough to make a decision on approving?
  - Are there any plans of others who want to teach?
    - Angelique in February
    - Reed Cartwright - at ASU
    - Smithsonian taught a couple months ago -- Mike will follow up to make sure issue is created or 
  - Adriana suggested setting a March "deadline" of "speak now or forever hold your peace"
  - Jen (from Zoom chat): If it is going to be Feb when the other lesson goes ahead, I might be more inclined to wait until then, given we can have a meeting around that time (perhaps just afterwards). But it seems very positive at the moment. 
- Q1 Meeting in March might be good opportunity to wrap up and make a final decision then

## Issues to highlight
- Toby: This change has happened, but I think there is nothing to worry about. I will open a PR to adjust the wording of the lesson as necessary.

**Next Meeting: Not planned, Feb or Mar 2024**
