# September 2023 Meeting of the Ecology Curriculum Advisors  

Meeting took place on **Monday 18 September 2023 ⋅ 14:00 – 15:00 UTC**

## Attendants

- Mike Trizna, he/him/his, Smithsonian Institution
- Adriana De Palma, she/her, Natural History Museum
- Reinder Radersma, he/him, Netherlands Foundation of Scientific Research Institutes (NWO-I)
- Erin Becker, she/her, The Carpentries
- Sichong Peng, he/him, EclipseBio

## Roles

- **Timekeeper:** Sichong Peng
- **Facilitator:** Reinder
- **Note Taker:** Adriana

## Agenda
- Previous meeting notes (below, and posted to https://github.com/datacarpentry/curriculum-advisors/pull/12/files)
- New R Ecology Lesson:
  - Blog post published: https://carpentries.org/blog/2023/07/r-ecology-alt-beta/
  - Any updates from Carpentries and/or others about beta testing results?
- Round-up of "status:refer to cac" Issue Labels (does someone know how to see all of them easily?):
  - Proposal to add RMarkdown primer to Beta R Ecology lesson
    - https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/R-ecology-lesson-alternative/issues/5
- From Toby (who cannot join until after 30 minutes): Development of a Curriculum Onboarding presentation for DC Ecology. 
  - The Carpentries is developing curriculum-specific onboarding materials for Instructors for all official curricula, as a deliverable for a grant from The Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation. The Curriculum Team is looking for volunteers from the Curriculum Advisory Committee to help us prepare the onboarding for the Data Carpentry Ecology curriculum. In the meeting, I will describe what we hope to achieve in more detail, present the template materials that have been developed for this project, and talk about how Curriculum Advisors could get involved in drafting, reviewing, and/or presenting the onboarding content.
- Any other topics?
  - Maybe Toby or Erin could talk about https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-development-training/? Lots of valuable insights for lesson developers.

## Previous meeting notes
- Erin has given Mike write access to enable merging pull requests etc

## New R Ecology Lesson
- New ecology course - blog is out.
- Update from Toby: no feedback from instructors, but expecting some soon. Will hope to have enough feedback to make a decision by the end of the year.
- Mike: Internally at the Smithsonian they will be using the Beta version next week, so will get some additional feedback [Erin Becker: email curriculum@carpentries.org and they will respond]

## Proposal to add RMarkdown
- There's an issue about potentially adding an Rmarkdown lesson to the Ecology course:
  - Adriana - if we do RMarkdown as well, where do you stop? It could easily be its own course. But saying that, I do tend to teach RMarkdown by default (so reproducibility is built in rather than a new topic)
  - Reinder - the whole workshop can't get too long. Maybe introduce it - if it's not introduced, people might not know about it.
  - Sichong Peng - likes the idea of using RMarkdown. Important for people to learn and know. We start students with RMarkdown from the start. We don't need to teach everything.
  - Mike - we tend to teach RMarkdown just before the visualisation. RMarkdown is useful in this section to be able to develop plots and see how you've done it in the previous set. It is one more way for students to get tripped up on the installation.
  - CAC are overall supportive of the idea of incorporating RMarkdown into the Ecology Lesson. We can see value in incorporating RMarkdown from the start (so it is a way of working rather than a separate lesson), but appreciate that is more work than adding an additional lesson on RMarkdown. So we would like advice from the maintainers. We'll also look out for relevant feedback on this from the Beta testing.

## Curriculum specific onboarding
- Recordings will be put on youtube
- We want to have the videos uploaded by the end of the year
- Mike: The Ecology lesson will be a little odd because there are two versions to choose from. 
- Toby: We probably don't want to record just yet then, as there will be a bit of a rewrite needed. So let's instead draft the sections of the presentation aren't affected by what version of the lesson you're using. I can draft the history/acknowledgments section
- Mike: it might be useful to do this even with the uncertainty over lessons.
- Reinder: Lots of content doesn't change between lessons, so let's continue (there's also two python lessons - so as long as we're clear about the differences between lessons, that's helpful)
- Toby: in the future, we'll probably only have to change out a few slides if/when the new lesson gets adopted. But we'll hold off on recording until the decision is finalised.
- Adriana: Practically, how do we contribute to the presentation?
- Toby: depends on what we want and how many of us want to get involved.
- Toby will send an email to the topicbox list and we can volunteer.
  - Reinder happy to help, but hasn't taught the course so other input would be helpful
  - Adriana happy to help, but doesn't have much time until end of November

## Lesson development training:
- Toby: launching the new training next month. Did a round of trainer training - now have eight people who can certify other people. Mike was one of the cohort. Teaches good practices in lesson design (especially around backwards design), teaches how to build open source lessons using Carpentries infrastructure, teaches collaborative design
- Mike: All of the curriculum (https://carpentries.github.io/lesson-development-training/) is open and available to read. It would be useful for the CAC to at least read the material to help us when it comes to assessing lesson changes.
- Toby: as always, contributions and feedback very welcome.

**Next Meeting: December 4**
